# Tutorial@BuildSys24 (Hangzhou!)

## More details on the plan and schedule will be online shortly. Stay tuned!!!

Smart building applications have shown potential to reduce building energy consumption while also maintaining occupant comfort and increasing productivity. Prior research on building operating systems and standardized building representations lays the foundation of developing portable and adaptable building applications. Despite technological and standardization victories, the pace of innovation and the adoption rate of these smart building applications in the real world remains low due to safety reasons. Building managers are naturally reluctant to deploy third party building applications which are unvetted and possibly buggy. The inability of modern buildings to properly restrict an application's permissions also makes the application's execution generally opaque to the manager, unless intensive manual effort is invested to monitor them.

Playground is an open-source ``safe'' operating system (OS) abstraction for buildings that enables the execution of untrusted, multi-tenant applications in modern buildings. Playground is integrated with the Brick representation of the underlying buildings and features flexible and extensible access control and resource isolation mechanisms. These novel mechanisms of Playground avoid the intensive manual effort required to deploy building apps safely.

In this tutorial, we will cover the design of Playground, and introduce how to develop and deploy building apps with Playground as well as how to ensure the safe executions of them with the mechanisms we provide. Ideally, attendants will be able to write their first own building application, deploy it on a real building, and write customized access control and resource isolation policies to regulate it. The goal is to encourage innovation and exploration of how modern building applications can provide value to occupants, managers, and other stakeholders in the real world with Playground.

